>>> THERE ARE ALL KINDS OF TRUMP
>>> THERE ARE ALL KINDS OF TRUMP SCANDALS THAT CONSUME
SCANDALS THAT CONSUME WASHINGTON.
WASHINGTON. ONE OF THE MOST IMPACTFUL COMING
ONE OF THE MOST IMPACTFUL COMING OUT OF D.C. IS A POTENTIAL
OUT OF D.C. IS A POTENTIAL BREAKTHROUGH ON GUN SAFETY.
BREAKTHROUGH ON GUN SAFETY. THE HOUSE PASSING TWO BILLS
THE HOUSE PASSING TWO BILLS STRENGTHENING BACKGROUND CHECKS
STRENGTHENING BACKGROUND CHECKS CLOSING THE LOOPHOLE RELATING TO
CLOSING THE LOOPHOLE RELATING TO THAT INFAMOUS MASS MURDER AT A
THAT INFAMOUS MASS MURDER AT A BLACK CHURCH IN CHARLESTO INN.
BLACK CHURCH IN CHARLESTO INN. >> IT’S SOMETHING ALL MEMBERS OF
>> IT’S SOMETHING ALL MEMBERS OF CONGRESS SHOULD HAVE THE COURAGE
CONGRESS SHOULD HAVE THE COURAGE TO CHANGE.
TO CHANGE. >> THE THE DAYS AFTER THE
>> THE THE DAYS AFTER THE EMMANUEL SHOOTING I WAS THERE IN
EMMANUEL SHOOTING I WAS THERE IN THE COMMUNITY DEALING WITH THEIR
THE COMMUNITY DEALING WITH THEIR PAIN AND LOSS AND AMERICA
PAIN AND LOSS AND AMERICA DESERVES BETTER THAN THIS.
DESERVES BETTER THAN THIS. >> ON THIS VOTE, THE YAYS ARE
>> ON THIS VOTE, THE YAYS ARE 228 AND THE NAYS ARE 198.
228 AND THE NAYS ARE 198. THE BILL IS PASSED.
THE BILL IS PASSED. >> THOSE 228 VOTES WOULD CLOSE
>> THOSE 228 VOTES WOULD CLOSE THIS LOOPHOLE THAT MANY SAY
THIS LOOPHOLE THAT MANY SAY PAVED THE WAY FOR DYLANN ROOFF
PAVED THE WAY FOR DYLANN ROOFF TO BUY A GUN THAT HE USED FOR
TO BUY A GUN THAT HE USED FOR THAT MASS MURDER WHICH SCARRED
THAT MASS MURDER WHICH SCARRED AMERICA.
AMERICA. >> THE GUNMAN OPENS FIRE IN A
>> THE GUNMAN OPENS FIRE IN A CHURCH KILLING NINE PEOPLE.
CHURCH KILLING NINE PEOPLE. >> AMONG THE VICTIMS WAS THE
>> AMONG THE VICTIMS WAS THE CHURCH’S PASTOR.
CHURCH’S PASTOR. >> HE RE-LOADED FIVE DIFFERENT
>> HE RE-LOADED FIVE DIFFERENT TIMES.
TIMES. HE JUST SAID I HAVE TO DO IT.
HE JUST SAID I HAVE TO DO IT. >> THE CITY IS IN MOURNGING.
>> THE CITY IS IN MOURNGING. THE STATE IS IN MOURNING.
THE STATE IS IN MOURNING. >> NO ONE WILL EVER FORGET THERE
>> NO ONE WILL EVER FORGET THERE NIGHT.
NIGHT. >> STILL IN A STATE OF SHOCK
>> STILL IN A STATE OF SHOCK TRYING TO SEEK AND FIND
TRYING TO SEEK AND FIND UNDERSTANDING.
UNDERSTANDING. >> THE HEART AND SOUL OF SOUTH
>> THE HEART AND SOUL OF SOUTH CAROLINA WAS BROKEN.
CAROLINA WAS BROKEN. >> THERE’S SOMETHING
>> THERE’S SOMETHING PARTICULARLY HEARTBREAKING ABOUT
PARTICULARLY HEARTBREAKING ABOUT THE DEATH HAPPENING ANDIN PLACE
THE DEATH HAPPENING ANDIN PLACE WHICH WE SEEK SO LASLACE AND PEA
WHICH WE SEEK SO LASLACE AND PEA >> AND SOON THE PROCESSING OF
>> AND SOON THE PROCESSING OF ANOTHER SHOOTING TURNED TO THE
ANOTHER SHOOTING TURNED TO THE GAERT
GAERT GATHERING OF STARK FACTS.
GATHERING OF STARK FACTS. AMERICANS LEARNED HOW DYLANN
AMERICANS LEARNED HOW DYLANN ROOF GOT HIS GUN IN FIRST PLACE.
ROOF GOT HIS GUN IN FIRST PLACE. THE ANSWER IS AS ILLOGICAL AS
THE ANSWER IS AS ILLOGICAL AS MADDENING HIGH PRESSURE HIS
MADDENING HIGH PRESSURE HIS BACKGROUND CHECK WOULD HAVE
BACKGROUND CHECK WOULD HAVE BARRED THAT GUN STORE FROM
BARRED THAT GUN STORE FROM SELLING HIM ONE.
SELLING HIM ONE. UNDER A VERY LAX LOOPHOLE WHEN
UNDER A VERY LAX LOOPHOLE WHEN THE FBI RESULTS DO NOT COME BACK
THE FBI RESULTS DO NOT COME BACK WITHIN THREE BUSINESS DAYS,
WITHIN THREE BUSINESS DAYS, FELONS WHO COULD NOT BUY GUNS
FELONS WHO COULD NOT BUY GUNS UNDER LAW ARE AUTOMATICALLY
UNDER LAW ARE AUTOMATICALLY CLEARED TO BUY A GUN.
CLEARED TO BUY A GUN. EVEN THOUGH CONGRESS AGREED ON I
EVEN THOUGH CONGRESS AGREED ON I GUNS, THERE’S A DELAY.
GUNS, THERE’S A DELAY. THAT’S WHAT HE DID WHEN HIS
THAT’S WHAT HE DID WHEN HIS BECOME GROUND CHECK DIDN’T
BECOME GROUND CHECK DIDN’T ARRIVE IN TIME.
ARRIVE IN TIME. MANY PEOPLE WHO MAKE LAWS.
MANY PEOPLE WHO MAKE LAWS. THE LAWS THAT ALLOW THE
THE LAWS THAT ALLOW THE CONVICTED FELON LIKE DYLANN ROOF
CONVICTED FELON LIKE DYLANN ROOF TO BUY A GUN THAT CONGRESS
TO BUY A GUN THAT CONGRESS ALREADY SAID ON RECORD, FLONO
ALREADY SAID ON RECORD, FLONO DEBATE, HE SHOULD NEVER GET TO
DEBATE, HE SHOULD NEVER GET TO BUY.
BUY. LINDSEY GRAHAM, AT THE TIME,
LINDSEY GRAHAM, AT THE TIME, SAID HE WAS PRAYING FOR THE
SAID HE WAS PRAYING FOR THE VICTIMS.
VICTIMS. >> FOR WHAT DID YOU PRAY, MAY I
>> FOR WHAT DID YOU PRAY, MAY I ASK?
ASK? >> FOR COMFORT IN HEALING AND
>> FOR COMFORT IN HEALING AND UNDERSTANDING TO THOSE WHO HAVE
UNDERSTANDING TO THOSE WHO HAVE SUFFERED IN A WAY THAT MOST OF
SUFFERED IN A WAY THAT MOST OF US CAN NEVER IMAGINE.
US CAN NEVER IMAGINE. I DON’T KNOW HOW THEY GET
I DON’T KNOW HOW THEY GET THROUGH THIS BUT WE ALL LOVE
THROUGH THIS BUT WE ALL LOVE THEM, THEY WILL.
THEM, THEY WILL. >> THAT LOVE IS CERTAINLY
>> THAT LOVE IS CERTAINLY WELCOME.
WELCOME. PUBLIC SAFETY IS NEVER LIMITED
PUBLIC SAFETY IS NEVER LIMITED TO EXPRESSIONS OF LOVE OURR
TO EXPRESSIONS OF LOVE OURR THOUGHTS OR PRAYERS.
THOUGHTS OR PRAYERS. WHAT DO SOME OF THE SENATORS SAY
WHAT DO SOME OF THE SENATORS SAY WHEN IT COMES TO IMPLEMENTED THE
WHEN IT COMES TO IMPLEMENTED THE LAW THAT THEY DID PASS THAT
LAW THAT THEY DID PASS THAT SUPPOSED TO BAR THE FELON.
SUPPOSED TO BAR THE FELON. THERE WAS AN OPPORTUNITY TO
THERE WAS AN OPPORTUNITY TO CLOSE THAT LOOPHOLE AND GOP
CLOSE THAT LOOPHOLE AND GOP LEADERS BLOCKED FLOOR VOTE ON
LEADERS BLOCKED FLOOR VOTE ON THAT ISSUE.
THAT ISSUE. I WANT US TO ALL AS WE LEARN
I WANT US TO ALL AS WE LEARN FROM WHAT’S HAPPENED TO KEEP
FROM WHAT’S HAPPENED TO KEEP THAT CONTRAST IN MIND.
THAT CONTRAST IN MIND. YOU RECALL THESE SENATORS
YOU RECALL THESE SENATORS DENOUNCING THE MURDERER WHILE
DENOUNCING THE MURDERER WHILE KNOWING THEY THEN WENT ONTO
KNOWING THEY THEN WENT ONTO BLOCK THE VERY VOTE THAT WOULD
BLOCK THE VERY VOTE THAT WOULD HAVE PREVENTED THAT MURDER, THAT
HAVE PREVENTED THAT MURDER, THAT FELON FROM GETTING HIS HANDS ON
FELON FROM GETTING HIS HANDS ON AN INSTRUMENT OF MURDER.
AN INSTRUMENT OF MURDER. >> THE HATEFUL AND RACIST
>> THE HATEFUL AND RACIST ACTIONS OF ONE DERANGED MAN HAVE
ACTIONS OF ONE DERANGED MAN HAVE CHANGED NINE FAMILIES FOREVER.
CHANGED NINE FAMILIES FOREVER. >> OUR HEARTS GO OUT TO THE
>> OUR HEARTS GO OUT TO THE FAMILY WHO IS HAVE BEEN AFFECTED
FAMILY WHO IS HAVE BEEN AFFECTED BY THERE AWFUL TRAGEDY.
BY THERE AWFUL TRAGEDY. >> WE SHOULD PRAY FOR THE
>> WE SHOULD PRAY FOR THE FAMILIES WHO LOST LOVED ONES.
FAMILIES WHO LOST LOVED ONES. >> PUBLIC SAFETY LAWS TO PREVENT
>> PUBLIC SAFETY LAWS TO PREVENT THATGETTING HIS HANDS
THATGETTING HIS HANDS ON A GUN.
ON A GUN. IT WAS SAME SENATORS WHO BLOCKED
IT WAS SAME SENATORS WHO BLOCKED THE LOOPHOLE.
THE LOOPHOLE. YOU GO BACK TO WHEN THERE WAS
YOU GO BACK TO WHEN THERE WAS ANOTHER FLOOR VOTE BACK IN 2013.
ANOTHER FLOOR VOTE BACK IN 2013. TAKE A LOOK AT THE SAME SENATORS
TAKE A LOOK AT THE SAME SENATORS YOU JUST SAW VOTING IT DOWN.
YOU JUST SAW VOTING IT DOWN. >> MR. SCOTT, NO.
>> MR. SCOTT, NO. >> MR. GRAHAM, NO.
>> MR. GRAHAM, NO. MR. McCONNELL, NO.
MR. McCONNELL, NO. SFLARTS
SFLARTS >> MOST GUN OWNERS SUPPORT THESE
>> MOST GUN OWNERS SUPPORT THESE CHECKS BUT THE NRA OPPOSES THEM
CHECKS BUT THE NRA OPPOSES THEM AND THE SENATORS A RATINGS
AND THE SENATORS A RATINGS DEPEND ON PICKING THE GUN LOBBY
DEPEND ON PICKING THE GUN LOBBY OVER ITS MEMBERS.
OVER ITS MEMBERS. THE FACT IS, THOSE ARE THE VOTES
THE FACT IS, THOSE ARE THE VOTES NAK IT
NAK IT MAKE IT EASIER FOR FELONYS TO GE
MAKE IT EASIER FOR FELONYS TO GE GUNS.
GUNS. GUN VIOLENCE IS KILLING MORE
GUN VIOLENCE IS KILLING MORE PEOPLE PER CAPITA IN THE UNITED
PEOPLE PER CAPITA IN THE UNITED STATES THAN ANY PLACE ON EARTH.
STATES THAN ANY PLACE ON EARTH. MORE THAN 36,000 OF US A YEAR.
MORE THAN 36,000 OF US A YEAR. IS THIS THE SAME OLD STORY.
IS THIS THE SAME OLD STORY. IS ANYTHING DIFFERENT TONIGHT?
IS ANYTHING DIFFERENT TONIGHT? YES.
YES. IN THIS NEW CONGRESS THERE’S ANA
IN THIS NEW CONGRESS THERE’S ANA MAJORITY IN THE HOUSE TO TIGHTEN
MAJORITY IN THE HOUSE TO TIGHTEN UP THESE BACKGROUND CHECKS.
UP THESE BACKGROUND CHECKS. THE LAST TIME THERE WAS A VOTE,
THE LAST TIME THERE WAS A VOTE, WE CAN TELL YOU THERE WAS ANA
WE CAN TELL YOU THERE WAS ANA MAJORITY IN THE SENATE FROM
MAJORITY IN THE SENATE FROM DOING THE SAME THING.
DOING THE SAME THING. LOOK AT THERE, WHEN A MAJORITY
LOOK AT THERE, WHEN A MAJORITY OF SENATORS VOTED PASS THE
OF SENATORS VOTED PASS THE BACKGROUND CHECK, SOME OF THE
BACKGROUND CHECK, SOME OF THE HEADLINES SAY THE SENATE
HEADLINES SAY THE SENATE REJECTED BACKGROUND CHECKS BUT
REJECTED BACKGROUND CHECKS BUT ACTUALLY THE NEWS WAS A MAJORITY
ACTUALLY THE NEWS WAS A MAJORITY IN THE SENATE SUCCEEDED IN A
IN THE SENATE SUCCEEDED IN A COALITION TO PASS BACKGROUND
COALITION TO PASS BACKGROUND CHECKS WITH 54 VOTES THAT
CHECKS WITH 54 VOTES THAT REPUBLICAN FILFILIBUSTERED.
REPUBLICAN FILFILIBUSTERED. IT’S A STORY ABOUT A MAJORITY
IT’S A STORY ABOUT A MAJORITY BLOCKED BY SENATE RULES AND A
BLOCKED BY SENATE RULES AND A LEADER WHO DEPLOYS THEM WITH AN
LEADER WHO DEPLOYS THEM WITH AN IRON GRIP.
IRON GRIP. WHO EXPLAINED WHY BILLS WITH
WHO EXPLAINED WHY BILLS WITH LOTS OF SUPPORT STILL DON’T GET
LOTS OF SUPPORT STILL DON’T GET FLOOR VOTES.
FLOOR VOTES. >> BECAUSE I GET TO DECIDE WHAT
>> BECAUSE I GET TO DECIDE WHAT WE VOTE ON.
WE VOTE ON. >> HE GETS TO DECIDE.
>> HE GETS TO DECIDE. TONIGHT WE ASKED SENATOR
TONIGHT WE ASKED SENATOR McCONNELL’S OFFICE WHETHER HE
McCONNELL’S OFFICE WHETHER HE WILL DECIDE TO HOLD A VOTE ON
WILL DECIDE TO HOLD A VOTE ON THAT BILL AND TONIGHT HIS
THAT BILL AND TONIGHT HIS OFFICER SAYS THEY DON’T HAVE ANY
OFFICER SAYS THEY DON’T HAVE ANY ANNOUNCEMENTS BEYOND THIS WEEK’S
ANNOUNCEMENTS BEYOND THIS WEEK’S SCHEDULE.
SCHEDULE. NO VOTE YET.
NO VOTE YET. McCONNELL IS FACING A CONGRESS
McCONNELL IS FACING A CONGRESS THAT IS INCREASINGLY UNITED
THAT IS INCREASINGLY UNITED AGAINST HIM ON THESE BACKGROUND
AGAINST HIM ON THESE BACKGROUND CHECKS.
CHECKS. A KAUCAUCUS OF SENATOR MAY FEEL
A KAUCAUCUS OF SENATOR MAY FEEL COMPASSION ARE VOTING DOWN THE
COMPASSION ARE VOTING DOWN THE MOST BASIC BILLS TO KEEP GUNS
MOST BASIC BILLS TO KEEP GUNS OUT OF THE HANDS OF CONVICTED
OUT OF THE HANDS OF CONVICTED FELONS WHO CARRY OUT THESE
FELONS WHO CARRY OUT THESE SHOOTINGS.
SHOOTINGS. IN D.C. THIS IS NOT CONSIDERED
IN D.C. THIS IS NOT CONSIDERED ONE OF THE TOP STORIES NOW.
ONE OF THE TOP STORIES NOW. GIVEN THE HOUSE VOTE AND THE
GIVEN THE HOUSE VOTE AND THE RATE OF MASS PRURDSMURDER AND TH
RATE OF MASS PRURDSMURDER AND TH PREVENTABLE PART, MAYBE THIS
PREVENTABLE PART, MAYBE THIS SHOULD BE ONE OF THE TOP STORIES
SHOULD BE ONE OF THE TOP STORIES IN WASHINGTON RIGHT NOW.
IN WASHINGTON RIGHT NOW. >> I DON’T KNOW HOW THEY GET
>> I DON’T KNOW HOW THEY GET THROUGH THIS BUT WE ALL LOVE
THROUGH THIS BUT WE ALL LOVE THEM, THEY WILL.
THEM, THEY WILL. >> MR. GRAHAM, NO.
>> MR. GRAHAM, NO. >> OUR HEARTS GO OUT TO THE
>> OUR HEARTS GO OUT TO THE FAMILIES.
FAMILIES. >> MR. McCONNELL, NO.
>> MR. McCONNELL, NO. >> WE SHOULD PRAY FOR THE